February Community Call Blog (#1067)
pnp/blog: content/office-add-ins-community-call/2023-02-08/index.md

---
title: "Office Add-ins developer platform community call – February 8th, 2023"

> summary: "Topics include: Create a spreadsheet from your website by David Chestnut, Upcoming Preview Word APIs by Yun Wang, and Add-in Support for new Outlook by Nikita Mitta and Juan Balmori. The call was hosted by Preethika Kiruveedula. Recorded on February 8, 2023."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: "Topics include: Create a spreadsheet from your website by David Chesnut, Upcoming Preview Word APIs by Yun Wang, and Add-in Support for new Outlook by Nikita Mitta and Juan Balmori. The call was hosted by Preethika Kiruveedula. Recorded on February 8, 2023."
```

* **Upcoming Preview Word APIs - March 2023.** Quick briefing on Word APIs that will Preview in March.  New/updated APIs include new insertFileFromBase64 API (insert content from source document into destination document), updated Style API (retrieve, show and insert other document’s styles in current document), Save / Close API (save/close new/existing documents), Fields API (more Field properties for selected types), and Content Control Events API (adding enter and exit events). Target mid-year GA.
* **Add-in Support for new Outlook.** Overview on new Outlook that’s available for Windows today and all platforms in time. What does this mean for developers? New Outlook is coming, web add-ins are going to be the main extensibility option for new Outlook, and the Microsoft team is super committed to add the richness needed to enable and support moving your existing COM add-in investments to web add-ins.

## Call to action

> *•	Call to Action for Outlook Add-in Mobile Developers – provide feedback on Outlook add-in scenarios you are trying to support [Outlook Mobile Add-in Developer Survey](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbRw5b9d2wAdRLj9NKAu1xfddUM1pW).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Call to Action for Outlook Add-in Mobile Developers – provide feedback on Outlook add-in scenarios you are trying to support [Outlook Mobile Add-in Developer Survey](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbRw5b9d2wAdRLj9NKAu1xfddUM1pW).
```

> * Share your feedback on how we can provide you with a better Office Add-ins development experience. Join a community panel. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Share your feedback on how we can provide a better Office Add-ins development experience. Join a community panel. 
```

    * [Outlook add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/OutlookAddinDeveloper)
    * [Excel add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/ExcelAddinDeveloper)
    * [Word add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/WordAddinDeveloper)
    * [PowerPoint add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/PowerPointAddinDeveloper)
    * [Samples and docs](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/OfficeAddinImproveSamplesDocs)
* [Sign up for the PnP Recognition Program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn contribution badges.
* Follow us on Twitter to see call agendas, important updates, and release announcements. 
    * [@microsoft365dev](https://twitter.com/microsoft365dev)
    * [@m365pnp](https://twitter.com/m365pnp)
* Register for the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://aka.ms/m365/devprogram) and get a free E5 developer tenant with instant availability and other assets.
* [Join the next Office Add-ins community call](https://aka.ms/officeaddinscommunitycall) on March 8th at 8:00 AM Pacific Time.

> * Please complete the [Office add-in developing experience survey](https://forms.office.com/r/wmzCgccbPa)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Please complete the [Office add-in developing experience survey](https://forms.office.com/r/wmzCgccbPa).
```

## Q&A (Question & Answers)

**Are there any plans to allow for add-ins to have limited functionality offline modes?**

> We have a sample at https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/Excel.OfflineStorageAddin, that shows some techniques for working offline. However, it would be good to know what additional features you may need for your scenario. Please let us know more at https://aka.ms/m365dev-suggestions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a sample that shows some techniques for working offline, see [Excel.OfficlenStoreAddin](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/Excel.OfflineStorageAddin) in our samples GitHub repo. However, it would be good to know what additional features you may need for your scenario. Please let us know more at https://aka.ms/m365dev-suggestions.
```

> For a sample that shows some techniques for working offline, see [Excel.OfficlenStoreAddin](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/Excel.OfflineStorageAddin) in our samples GitHub repo. However, it would be good to know what additional features you may need for your scenario. Please let us know more at https://aka.ms/m365dev-suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a sample that shows some techniques for working offline, see [Techniques to access data from an Office Add-in when offline](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/Excel.OfflineStorageAddin) in our samples GitHub repo. However, it would be good to know what additional features you may need for your scenario. Please let us know more at https://aka.ms/m365dev-suggestions.
```

> We have a sample for this at https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/Excel.OfflineStorageAddin, however I think they may be looking for more features such as loading while offline. Would be good to know if that sample doesn't work for them what additional features they need  and submit request to suggestions site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a sample at https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/Excel.OfflineStorageAddin, that shows some techniques for working offline. However, it would be good to know what additional features you may need for your scenario. Please let us know more at https://aka.ms/m365dev-suggestions.
```

**Where can we find a roadmap regarding the future of Office Add-Ins using Office.JS?**

> We are improving our processes, including adding API releases to the [Microsoft 365 Roadmap (MSRRP)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/roadmap?rtc=2&filters=). Periodically check this page for feature updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are improving our processes, including adding API releases to the [Microsoft 365 Roadmap (MSRRP)](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/roadmap?rtc=2&filters=). Periodically check this page for feature updates.
```

**Can an API function know what user uses the add-In to be able to retrieve the right information?**

> Yes, the sample doesn't use auth, but you should set up auth on the Azure function so that it would have the user name. The [Azure Functions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/) documentation should have info on how to set this up. You can configure the parameters you pass to the function to pass any values you need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, the sample doesn't use auth, but we recommend you set up auth on the Azure function so that it has the user name. For information how to set this up, see  the [Azure Functions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/) documentation. You can configure the parameters you pass to the function to pass any values you need.
```

**Any way to name the new workbook? (or Save As equivalent)?**

> Yes, the uploadFile function in authPopup.js takes a name parameter. You can use any name you prefer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, the uploadFile function in authPopup.js takes a name parameter. Use any name you prefer.
```

**I am trying to work with shapes on an PowerPoint Web Add-in, on Visual Studio, using the PowerPoint JavaScript API, but I am not able to use the features shown on the Office Add-ins community call from August 2021. I get it to work on Script Lab, but not on Visual Studio (e.g. shape.textFrame.textRange.font.color = "purple";). How can I get help?**

> Make sure that the template is referencing the CDN for Office.js. If you need further guidance, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues/new/choose). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that the template refers to the CDN for Office.js. If you need further guidance, [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues/new/choose). 
```

**Where can I get help/support to work out the Graph authentication for add-ins? I have not had any success to make the add-in and Graph authentication setup.**

Reach out to the [identity team](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/developer-support-help-options) for further help.

**Will the other types than richText or ContentControls be supported in the next preview as well?**

PlainText CC will be supported in the preview as well.

**Are you going to retire the desktop Outlook application? Will a new Outlook be included to the Office package instead?**

This hasn't been determined yet.

**When will the support of shared mailboxes be made public? It's been in preview for months now.**

Support for shared mailbox scenarios will be made available mid-year.

**COM/VSTO add-ins does that also include VBA?**

> Yes. COM and VSTO add-ins that include VBA will not be supported in the new Outlook on Windows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes. COM and VSTO add-ins include VBA and will not be supported in the new Outlook on Windows.
```
